I Friends.
In this video, we are going to see the next function or operation
of your sed command that is find and replaced with set command.
So you, just once again, I'm going to,
you are a previous concepts of your sed command.
You know, the sed command functions or operations or like weaving
file content based on the line numbers, right?
So searching, so printed the ends which are having you are required
word than now financially place, right?
So then that you have some more operations, right?
You already know, let me go and work with your sed command for
your find and replace your sed command right?
In this way. Now, I want to find something and finding what is there,
that word I wonder replace with some other word in a file using your set command.
Let say example.
I will do one thing. I will take password file.
See how your password file something in this way information.
Now what I want to do is just assume
that root word I want to replace with some other word.
Right?
So anyway, I don't want to disrupt
the existing file because this is the important of and that's why I just,
I'm making a new file called demo password dot TXT file.
Now observe that u, how demo password dot TXT file.
In this file what I want to do is the root word I want to replace with some other word.
A root user I want to replace with some other user, right?
Just simple sed command by using sed command, right?
So you want to substitute, right?
You have to use yes.
Then what is the yuan required or wold word in your file?
Suppose route, and with what,
what do you want to replace?
So I want to replace with suppose some. You'd amine.
That's it.
Then you can provide your file in this way.
Now see the output wherever route is there, right?
That there you are getting Udemy,
but this Udemy is not replacing in all the places of your route.
So here I'll show you how rude here also,
you have root right after that a year in Rudy's their anneals, Rudy's that.
But by default it is not going to replace all the places where you how root,
because we use simply this syntax.
So this is going to substitute
the only the first occurred word in each and every line. In each and every line.
If there is a root at very first word,
I mean somewhere whatever the first toward our currents,
that place will be replaced with u demean.
Right?
In case if I want to replace all wherever route is,
they're all words I want to replace in each and every line with Udemy,
then you have to use G globally.
After that.
Now see that wherever the route is there,
there you are replacing Udemy. Right?
Now.
First, let me open you and guys one more thing.
Whatever the operation we are doing now,
that is not going to disturb your original file,
that is not going to replace in your original file.
You can observe your original file.
This is your original file, right?
Just absorb the original file.
Route is that you are not going to replace.
If you want to replace the word Jill file information itself,
what you ought to do, you know,
you have to include it simply iPhone I option.
Right?
Just I'm including hyphen I option and I'm entering, you know,
that hyphen I is very dangerous if you want to take a backup before going to
replace with your required information, right?
You just take a backup.
So sed command with iPhone I dot back,
we'll also take a backup and it will modify
the original file content information with your reward required find and replace thing.
Enter.
Now observe you are fine.
So you'd amine is replacing your original file now.
But you'll find means what order file you are using for your set command, right?
Or on which you are using sed command.
Instead of displaying the modified result on your terminal.
If you want to modify in the vagal file itself,
then you have to include Ivan I option.
So only iphone i also you can use it but
before going to modify your original file, right?
If you want to take a backup,
simply you can do hyphenate dot backup back.
That will take a backup, right?
Fine.
And now let me take once again you are original
file C. Now let me go with suppose somewhere daimon is there right?
Now, day money is here also there.
Here I is there in this line to places you how
Damon now what I wanted to ease in a, in any lane.
Anyway, you are sed command is going to work on each and every line right?
Now, only the second occurred world I want to replace with something.
That means see that first I'm not going to modify the original file.
That's why I'm not including iphone i option sub shoot,
name on with suppose something like system CTL.
Only the second occurred world.
I mean, it's a day my year it is occurring layered first.
So here I don't want to disturb.
If day monies are occurring in the second time in the same line,
then this word I want to replace with the system CTL, right?
See the output. So here today money is
there as it is only the second occurred word is replacing.
So likewise, you've heard Damon somewhere in one more place, right?
That there also it will do, you will action.
Right? Fine.
Now if you want to modify permanently in our original file itself,
you can do simply iPhone IE.
That's it.
Now see the content.
It has been modified.
Right?
That's fine.
Now, what I want to do is if first let me show you first to file.
Just upload this file. Okay.
Now what I want to do is oh,
let me in your next nobody.
Yeah, fine.
See if any lane consists of nobody,
then that line in that line,
I want to replace no login with some other word.
So there's here what I'm doing is first,
I am searching with some word.
So you know how to such right?
See said simply such guys already we have seen searching video, right?
So what I want to do is whatever the line which consists of some particular word,
that word may be anything.
Right? Let me take simply DevOps, also know bowel.
So DevOps, that line I want to print,
Let me first printer that line.
So you know how to such leads the way how you can submit your file, right?
So DevOps is there, you are able to print.
Now if DevOps is there in their particular line,
then in that line I want to replace bash with suppose some cases rich, right?
So at that time what you had to do E's Find and Replace for such With the DevOps,
then substitute bash with K shell.
Nuts it, see the output.
What happened? Yeah, I missed one more slash here.
Now see the output where we are,
DevOps, sub shoot bash with K-shell.
Devops.
Yeah, see here.
So wherever you have DevOps in that line, right?
Bash is replacing with K-shell because you are applying,
you are finding with the badge and replacing with K-shell.
But before going to perform this action,
your line should our DevOps key word.
If these what is there in that line,
then only batch will replace with K-shell, right?
So this is a searching Word and in place of this you are replacing with cation.
Okay, so engaged a surgeon dot u House badge multiple times.
And if you want to replace a bash with K-shell global emissions in all places,
then you have to use simply g.
That's it. Okay, so guys,
this is the simple way to find and replace.
So you have to remember your final syntax of set command for your Find and Replace.
Like, let me open my notepad and let me write that.
First thing you know, sed command, right?
Set.
Substitute.
What do you want to substitute your world word with your new word?
Then if you keep G or if you don't keep anything,
first of all, write some file, whatever that file.
So here, the first occurred word.
The first occurred world word will be
replacing
with the new word
on each and every line.
That's a substitute Old World
with the New G.
So what is the meaning of G is nothing but replace
all wold words with new word on each and every line.
That's it.
Now I don't want to replace all words, all wold words.
I want to replace only the second occurred old word in each and every line,
then nothing is there simply as old, New than two.
Or if you just assume that in a line you house,
suppose some number of times, some particular old-world.
And I want to replace only the second occurred World War two with the new world,
then you have to use this thing. Right?
So replaces second occurred old world with new work.
Then said, here sea rise searching,
searching from our previous video, right?
What the, what the, what do you want to use to such?
First such with this word.
And then in that line,
if any World War II is then replaced with a new word,
and you can use either G or only one time or second time, right?
I mean second occur world,
whatever it maybe you can use it.
So replaces the Old World with the New World.
If that line consists of such word toxic.
So you are searching with this wording on each and every line.
If any line consists of these such word,
then you are replacing some word with other word.
You're going to use like a globally or only 1.
First occurred time was second or third time.
Whatnot, maybe you can use it.
Ok, so this is the simple way to use your find and
replace and find and replace with such option.
Okay? There is very, very important case you need to do some practice on this.
Okay? Okay.
Yes. Thank you for watching this video.